
.. _features_and_target_audience:

Features and target audience
============================================================================

This section gives a brief introduction into Dragonfly, its 
features, and the audience it's targeted at.

Features
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dragonfly was written to make it very easy for Python macros, 
scripts, and applications to interface with speech recognition 
engines.  Its design allows speech commands and grammar objects 
to be treated as first-class Python objects.  This allows easy 
and intuitive definition of complex command grammars and greatly 
simplifies processing recognition results.

*Language object model*
   The core of Dragonfly is based on a flexible object model for 
   handling speech elements and command grammars.  This makes it 
   easy to define complex language constructs, but also greatly 
   simplifies retrieving the semantic values associated with a 
   speech recognition.

*Support for multiple speech recognition engines*
   Dragonfly's modular nature lets it use different speech 
   recognition engines at the back end, while still providing a 
   single front end interface to its users.  This means that a 
   program that uses Dragonfly can be run on any of the 
   supported back end engines without any modification. 
   Currently Dragonfly supports Dragon NaturallySpeaking and 
   Windows Speech Recognition (included with Windows Vista & above),
   Kaldi (cross-platform), and CMU Pocket Sphinx (cross-platform).

*Built-in action framework*
   Dragonfly contains its own powerful framework for defining 
   and executing actions.  It includes actions for text input 
   and key-stroke simulation.


Target audience
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dragonfly is a Python package.  It is a library which can be 
used by people writing software that interfaces with speech 
recognition.  Its main target audience therefore consists of 
programmers.

On the other hand, Dragonfly's high-level object model is very 
easy and intuitive to use.  It is very rewarding for people 
without any prior programming experience to see their first 
small attempts to be rewarded so quickly by making their 
computer listen to them and speak to them.  This is exactly how 
some of Dragonfly's users were introduced to writing software.

Dragonfly also offers a robust and unified platform for people 
using speech recognition to increase their productivity and 
efficiency.  An `entire repository
<https://github.com/t4ngo/dragonfly-modules>`_
of Dragonfly command-modules is available which contains command 
grammars for controlling common applications and automating 
frequent desktop activities.
